
## Logging

Logs are discrete records of events that happen in S/w applications over time. They contain a timestamp that indicates when the event happened, as well as information about the events and its context. This information can be used to answer questions like "What happened at this time?", "Which thread was processing the event?", or "Which user/tenant was in the context?"

Logs are essential tools for troubleshooting and debugging tasks. They can be used to reconstruct what happened at a specific point in time in a single application instance. Logs are typically categorized according to the type or severity of the event, such as trace, debug, info, warn, and error. This allows us to log only the most severe events in production, while still giving us the chance to change the log level temporarily during debugging.


##### Logging in Monolithic Apps
In monolithic apps, all of the code is in a single codebase. This means that all of the logs are also in a single location. This makes it easy to find and troubleshoot problems, as you only need to look in one palce.

##### Logging in Microservice
Logging in microservice is complex. This is because each service has its own logs. This means that you need to  look in multiple places to find all of the logs for a particular request.


> To address this challenge, microservices architectures often use centralized logging. Centralized logging collects logs from all of the services in the architecture and stores them in a single location. This  makes it easier to find and troubleshoot problems,, as  you only need to look in one place.
