OpenTelemetry **provides a single, open source standard, and a set of technologies to capture and export metrics, traces, and logs from your cloud-native applications and infrastructure**. Modern cloud-native applications are distributed, making the capture and export of telemetry data complicated.

#### What is the use of OpenTelemetry?
OpenTelemetry is used **to collect telemetry data from distributed systems in order to troubleshoot, debug and manage applications and their host environment**. It offers an easy way for IT and developer teams to instrument their code base for data collection and make adjustments as the organization grows.


## Distributed Tracing with OpenTelemetry, Temp & Grafana

#### 1. OpenTelemetry
Using OpenTelemetry generate traces and spans automatically. OpenTelemetry also known as "OTel" for short, is a vendor-neutral open-source Observability framework for instrumenting, generating, collecting, and exporting telemetry data such as traces, metrics, logs.

#### Tempo
Index the tracing information using Grafana Tempo. Tempo is an open-source, highly scalable, and cost-effective distributed tracing backend designed for observability in cloud-native environments. It is a part of the Grafana observability stack and provides a dedicated solution for efficient storage, retrieval, and analysis of trace data.

#### Grafana
Using Grafana, we can connect to Tempo as a datasource and see the distributed tracing in action with the help of visuals. We can integrate Loki and Tempo as well, so that we can jump to tracing details directly from logs inside Loki.

 