

- This constraint allows to define the actions MicrosoftSQL Server should take when a user attempts to delete or update a key to which an existing foreign keys points.

- For example, if you delete row with ID =1 from tblGender table, then row with ID = 3 form tblPerson table becomens an orphan record. You will not be able to tell the Gender for this row. So, Cascading referential integrity constraint can be used to define actions MicrosoftSQL Server should take when this happens. By default, we get an error and the DELETE or UPDATE statement is rolled back.



#### Options when setting up Cascading referential integrity constraint

1. **No Action:** This is the default behavior. It specifies that if an attempt is made to delete or update a row with the key referenced by foreign keys in existing rows in other tables, an error is raised and the DELETE or UPDATE is rolled back.

2. **Cascade:** Specifies that if an attempt is made to delete or update a row with a key referenced by foreign keys in existing rows in other tables, all rows containing those foreign keys are also deleted or updated

3. **Set NULL:** Specifies that if an attempt is made to delete or update a row with a key referenced by foreign keys in existing rows in other tables, all rows containing those foreign keys are set to NULL

4. **Set Default:** Specifies that if an attempt is made to delete or update a row with a key referenced by foreign keys in existing rows in other tables, all rows containing those foreign keys are set to default values


```sql
ALTER TABLE tblPerson ADD CONSTRAINT tblPerson_GenderID_FK FOREIGN KEY (GenderID) REFERENCES tblGender(ID) ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE SET NULL;
```


#### Check constraint

- It is used to limit the range of the values, that can be entered for a column.

##### Syntax
```sql
ALTER TABLE ADD CONSTRAINT <constraint-name> CHECK (boolean-expression);
```

##### Example
```sql
ALTER TABLE ADD CONSTRAINT CK_tblPerson_Age CHECK (AGE > 0 AND AGE < 150);
```

> If the column is nullable, It is possible to pass null for the column, when you will pass the value as NULL, the Boolean expression evaluates to UNKNOWN, and allows the value i.e., then it will not give an error because NULL will be considered as unknown, hence It will insert the NULL VALUE
