#### Section Overview
- Serverless Overview
- Serverless Services in Azure
- Azure Functions Refresher
- Introducing Durable Functions
- Durable Functions Common Workflows
- Durable Function Types


#### What is Serverless

What it means when someone says they are going serverless.?

As an example, consider a scenario where you intend to design a straightforward to do list application. The frontend of the application communicates with the backend through rest APIs. These APIs invoke the relevant business logic and code to store and retrieve data in a database. Users can access their to do lists via mobile application, Android, iOS or a web application.

To implement this in a traditional server based model, you would have web servers where you write code to accept incoming rest requests and certain endpoint URLs. You would then write code on the same or another server that runs your business logic in the web server layer.

Additionally, you would have another server running a database service such as MySQL or MongoDB to store your data in a server based model. All of this infrastructure could be virtual machines running in cloud or in your on premise infrastructure.

As your application grows and demand increases, you need to add more servers to scale. However, when demand decreases, you need to remove the extra servers to avoid wasting resources and incurring unnecessary costs.

This means you have to be careful not to overprovision or under-provision your server capacity. Additionally, you need to keep the servers up to date with the latest OS security updates and software updates while making sure not to break anything. These are just a few of the numerous obstacles that come with hosting via a server centric model.

On the other hand, in a serverless model, you don't have to manage servers for your application. In state, you can use various serverless services like Azure Functions, AWS, Lambda to run code on demand in a serverless database service like Cosmos DB to store data. The cloud provider such as Essure, takes care of the underlying server infrastructure for you and can automatically scale to accommodate millions of requests and demand. 

Additionally, the most crucial aspect is that you are only charged for the duration your court runs. Unlike a virtual machine where you pay for the entire time, the virtual machine is operational regardless of whether it is in use or not. This is a very high level comparison between server and serverless model.

An increasing number of businesses are adopting a serverless approach as it offers improved efficiency and cost advantages.

### Advantages of Using Serverless
1. One of the advantages of using serverless compute is that you are charge only for the duration during which your function runs. As a result, if your function is not invoke, you will not incur any charges.
2. Another advantage is that it scales automatically to meet your demand.

### Drawback
- Cold start
## Major Cloud Providers

1. AWS - Amazon Web Services
2. Azure - Microsoft Azure
3. GCP - Google Cloud Platform


## Azure Serverless Services

##### 1. Compute
1. Azure Functions
2. Durable Functions
3. Azure App Service
4. AKS
5. Container Apps

```
1. In this category, there are services like Azure functions and Azure durable functions, which are event driven compute services to run your code on Azure. You write a code in any supported language and uploaded it to Azure. You define a trigger event tha should active your function, and when that event takes place, your function code is executed.

2. With Azure App Service, you can run entire web, mobile app or applications in platform stack of your choice.

3. AKS allows you to create serverless Kubernetes based applications with event driven auto scaling of your cluster.

4. You may deploy containerized apps without managing complex infrastructure with Azure container apps.
```
##### 2. Database
1. Cosmos DB
2. SQL Serverless DB

```
1. Azure Cosmos DB is a fully managed, distributed NoSQL database service. It’s a globally distributed, massively scalable, multi-model database service.
```
##### 3. Storage
1. Azure Blob Storage
```
1. There is a blolb storage to store unstructured data like images or files which can be accessed anywhere from the internet. It is a scalable object storage where you pay only for storage and data transfer and not managing the servers which store the data.
2. BS can also be used for hosting a static website which contains only client side code that runs in the browser.
```
##### 4. Monitoring
1. Azure Monitor
```
1. In monitoring category, AM can help you gain full visibility into your serverless apps to monitor and imporve the performance and remove bottlenecks in your architecture.
```

##### 5. Analytics
1. Azure Stream Analytics
```
1. In Analytics category, ASM allows you tur run real time analytics on stream of data like IOT data.
```
##### 6. Integration
1. Azure Logic Apps
2. API Management
3. Azure Event Grid
4. Azure Service Bus
```
1. In integration services, ALA helps you to visually create serverless workflows to integrate apps and data.
2. Management Service allows you to create and manage a secure API to grant and monitor access to your back end resources.
3. AEG allows you easily build applications with event based architectures.
4. ASB is a message blocker which allows to decouple applications and services. Service bus offers queues to transfer data asynchronously b/w different entities.
```
##### 7. DevOps
1. Azure DevOps
```
1. Azure DevOps Service provides unlimited Git repos and continuous integration and devlivery to automatically trigger builds and deployment of your application.
```
##### 8. AI & ML
1. Azure ML
2. Azure Cognitive Services
```
1. In ML category, AML allows you to build test and train machine learning models.
2. ACS, help you at natural language processing features to your application.
```

> By combining multiple of these services, you could create a  serverless architecture that is both cost effective and can scale dynamically as per demand.


