> Authorization only comes after Authentication

OpenID Connect (OIDC) is an identity authentication protocol that is an extension of open authorization (OAuth) 2.0 to standardize the process for authenticating and authorizing users when they sign in to access digital services.
###### What is OpenID Connect?  
- OpenID Connect is a protocol that sits on top of the OAuth 2.0 framework. While OAuth 2.0 provides authorization via an access token containing scopes, OpenID Connect provides authentication by introducing a new ID token which contains a new set of information and claims specifically for identity.  
- With the ID token, OpenID Connect brings standards around sharing identity details among the applications.

> The OpenID Connect flow looks the same as OAuth. The only differences are, in the initial requests, a specific scope of Openid is used , and in the final exchange the client receives both an Access Token and an ID Token.
###### OpenID Connect add below details to OAuth2.0
1. OIDC standardize the scopes to openid, profile, email, and address.
2. ID Token using JWT standard
3. OIDC exposes the standardized "/userinfo" endpoint
#### How OpenID Connect Works
OpenID Connect enables an Internet identity ecosystem through easy integration and support, security and privacy-preserving configuration, interoperability, wide support of clients and devices, and enabling any entity to be an OpenID Provider (OP).

###### The OpenID Connect protocol, in abstract, follows these steps:
1. End user **navigates to a website or web application** via a browser.
2. End user **clicks sign-in** and types their username and password.
3. The RP (Client) **sends a request** to the OpenID Provider (OP).
4. The OP **authenticates the User** and obtains authorization.
5. The OP **responds with an Identity Token** and usually an **Access Token**.
6. The RP can **send a request** with the Access Token to the User device.
7. The UserInfo Endpoint **returns Claims** about the End-User.


##### Authentication
The secure process of establishing and communicating that the person operating an application or browser is who they claim to be.
##### Client
A client is a piece of software that requests tokens either for authenticating a user or for accessing a resource (also often called a relying party or RP). A client must be registered with the OP. Clients can be web applications, native mobile and desktop applications, etc.
##### Relying Party (RP)
RP stands for Relying Party, an application or website that outsources its user authentication function to an IDP.
##### OpenID Provider (OP) or Identity Provider (IDP)
An OpenID Provider (OP) is an entity that has implemented the OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 protocols, OP’s can sometimes be referred to by the role it plays, such as: a security token service, an identity provider (IDP), or an authorization server.
##### Identity Token
An identity token represents the outcome of an authentication process. It contains at a bare minimum an identifier for the user (called the sub aka subject claim) and information about how and when the user authenticated. It can contain additional identity data.
##### User
A user is a person that is using a registered client to access resources.

---
#### Why is OpenID Connect important?
- Identity is the key to any application. At the core of modern authorization is OAuth 2.0, but OAuth 2.0 lacks an authentication component. Implementing OpenID Connect on top of OAuth 2.0 completes an IAM (Identity & Access Management) strategy.
- As more and more applications need to connect with each other and more identities are being populated on the internet, the demand to be able to share these identities is also increased. With OpenID connect, applications can share the identities easily and standard way.